doc/contributor.md, before:

# Contributor Guide

This guide provides useful information for contributors.

## Deploying Changes

You may want to test changes you made locally in a cluster. This requires you
to build new container images with the new changes and push them to the
cluster. This process is encapsulated in a Makefile target called
`deploy-local`.

Please note this process assumes you have not deployed the operator already. If
you have deployed the operator using packages, Helm, or from source, you will
need to uninstall the operator before deploying your local changes.

The `deploy-local` target needs API access to the cluster. You must
authenticate to the cluster before running `deploy-local` using `oc login`.

The following command will build images container local changes and push them
to the cluster:

```
$ make deploy-local
```

## Testing Changes

This repository contains unit and functional tests for the compliance-operator.
Both are invoked using Makefile targets.

### Unit Tests

Unit tests have no dependency on external systems, or a Kubernetes cluster. You
can run them using:

```console
$ make test-unit
```

### Functional Tests

The end-to-end tests for the compliance-operator require a Kubernetes
deployment. You can also change test and test setup behavior using environment
variables when invoking the tests.

For example, you can specify a container registry for content images using
`DEFAULT_CONTENT_IMAGE_PATH` and `E2E_CONTENT_IMAGE_PATH`. The default registry
for these container images is available on
[Quay](https://quay.io/repository/compliance-operator/compliance-operator-content).
The [ComplianceAsCode/content](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/) is
built and published to compliance-operator/compliance-operator-content so that
we run end-to-end tests against the latest content images available from
ComplianceAsCode. The content is built using a
[Dockerfile](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/master/Dockerfiles/ocp4_content)
maintained in the ComplianceAsCode/content repository. You may not have a
reason to change these values unless you want to test with different content
images.

```console
$ make e2e
```

## Writing Release Notes

Release notes are maintained in the [changelog](CHANGELOG.md) and follow
guidelines based on [keep a changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
This section describes additional guidelines, conventions, and the overall
process for writing release notes.

### Guidelines

* Each release should contain release notes
* Changes should be applicable to at least one of the six types listed below
* Use literals for code and configuration (e.g. `defaultScanSettingsSchedule`
  or `nodeSelector`)
* Write your notes with users as the audience
* Link to additional documentation
  - Bug fixes should link to bug reports (GitHub Issues or Jira items)
  - Features or enhancements should link to RFEs (GitHub Issues or Jira items)
* Use active voice
  - Active voice is more direct and concise than passive voice, perfect for
    release notes
  - Focus on telling the user how a change will affect them
  - Examples
    - *You can now adjust the frequency of your scans by...*
    - *The compliance-operator no longer supports...*

### Change Types

The following describe each potential section for a release changelog.

1. Enhancements
2. Fixes
3. Internal Changes
4. Deprecations
5. Removals
6. Security

*Enhancements* are reserved for communicating any new features or
functionality. You should include any new configuration or processes a user
needs to take to use the new feature.

*Fixes* are for noting improvements to any existing functionality.

*Internal Changes* are ideal for communicating refactors not exposed to end
users. Even if a change does not directly impact end users, it is still
important to highlight paying down technical debt and the rationale for those
changes, especially since they impact the project's roadmap.

*Deprecations* is for any functionality, feature, or configuration that is
being deprecated and staged for removal. Deprecations should include why we're
preparing to remove the functionality and signal any suitable replacements
users should adopt.

*Removals* is for any functionality, feature, or configuration that is being
removed. Typically, entries in this section will have been deprecated for some
period of time. The compliance-operator follows the
[Kubernetes deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/).

*Security* is reserved for communicating security fixes and remediations for
CVEs.

A change can apply to multiple change types. For example, a bug fix for a CVE
should be mentioned in the *Fixes* and *Security* sections.

### Process

Contributors must include a release note with their changes. New notes should
be added to the [Unreleased section](CHANGELOG.md#unreleased) of the
[changelog](CHANGELOG.md). Reviewers will assess the accuracy of the release
note against the change.

Maintainers preparing a new release will propose a change that renames the
[Unreleased release notes](CHANGELOG.md#unreleased) to the newly released
version and release date. Maintainers can remove empty sections if it does not
contain any release notes for a specific release.

Maintainers will remove the content of the [Unreleased section](CHANGELOG.md#unreleased)
to allow for new release notes for the next release.

Following this process makes it easier to maintain and release accurate release
notes without having to retroactively write release notes for merged changes.

### Examples

The following is an example release note for a feature with a security note.

```
## Unreleased
### Enhancements

- Allow configuring result servers using `nodeSelector` and `tolerations`
  ([RFE](https://github.com/openshift/compliance-operator/issues/696))
  - You can now specify which nodes to use for storing raw compliance results
    using the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` from `ScanSettings`.
  - By default, raw results are stored on nodes labeled
    `node-role.kubernetes.io/master`.
  - Please refer to the upstream Kubernetes
    [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
    for details on how to use `nodeSelector` and `tolerations`.

### Security

- Allow configuring result servers using `nodeSelector` and `tolerations`
  ([RFE](https://github.com/openshift/compliance-operator/issues/696))
  - Raw compliance results may contain sensitive information about the
    deployment, its infrastructure, or applications. Make sure you send raw
    results to trusted nodes.
```

## Proposing Releases

The release process is separated into three phases, with dedicated `make`
targets. All targets require that you set the environment variable `VERSION` prior to
running `make`, which should be a semantic version formatted string (e.g.,
`VERSION=0.1.49`).

Additionally, before preparing an official release, it is important to remember
to unset the `IMAGE_REPO` and  `TAG` environment variables in your shell, if you
have been previously developing test images. This ensures that the release applies
to the correct upstream images.

### Preparing the Release

The first phase of the release process is preparing the release locally. You
can do this by running the `make prepare-release` target. All changes are
staged locally. This is intentional so that you have the opportunity to
review the changes before proposing the release in the next step.

### Proposing the Release

The second phase of the release is to push the release to a dedicated branch
against the origin repository. You can perform this step using the `make
push-release` target.

Please note, this step makes changes to the upstream repository, so it is
imperative that you review the changes you're committing prior to this step.
This step also requires that you have necessary permissions on the repository.

### Releasing Images

The third and final step of the release is to build new images and push them to
an offical image registry. You can build new images and push using `make
release-images`. Note that this operation also requires you have proper
permissions on the remote registry.

### Purpose of `ocp-0.1` Branch

In order to fetch the source for OCP downstream pipeline, we have added a branch `ocp-0.1`,
this branch should be synced to the latest upstream release branch. The sync process has 
been included in `push-release` make target.

Commit message:

Add Makefile target for generating unit test coverage reports
While end-to-end coverage is important, it's good to have an idea of
what parts of the code aren't being exercised with unit tests. Good unit
tests can provide efficent coverage without expensive infrastructure or
wait times.

This commit makes it easier for developers to see test coverage by
adding an explicity target for it.

doc/contributor.md, after:

# Contributor Guide

This guide provides useful information for contributors.

## Deploying Changes

You may want to test changes you made locally in a cluster. This requires you
to build new container images with the new changes and push them to the
cluster. This process is encapsulated in a Makefile target called
`deploy-local`.

Please note this process assumes you have not deployed the operator already. If
you have deployed the operator using packages, Helm, or from source, you will
need to uninstall the operator before deploying your local changes.

The `deploy-local` target needs API access to the cluster. You must
authenticate to the cluster before running `deploy-local` using `oc login`.

The following command will build images container local changes and push them
to the cluster:

```
$ make deploy-local
```

## Testing Changes

This repository contains unit and functional tests for the compliance-operator.
Both are invoked using Makefile targets.

### Unit Tests

Unit tests have no dependency on external systems, or a Kubernetes cluster. You
can run them using:

```console
$ make test-unit
```

### Coverage Tests

There is a seperate target specifically for unit test coverage that outputs a
coverage report in `coverage.out`. It also provides a coverage summary.

```console
$ make test-coverage
```

### Functional Tests

The end-to-end tests for the compliance-operator require a Kubernetes
deployment. You can also change test and test setup behavior using environment
variables when invoking the tests.

For example, you can specify a container registry for content images using
`DEFAULT_CONTENT_IMAGE_PATH` and `E2E_CONTENT_IMAGE_PATH`. The default registry
for these container images is available on
[Quay](https://quay.io/repository/compliance-operator/compliance-operator-content).
The [ComplianceAsCode/content](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/) is
built and published to compliance-operator/compliance-operator-content so that
we run end-to-end tests against the latest content images available from
ComplianceAsCode. The content is built using a
[Dockerfile](https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/master/Dockerfiles/ocp4_content)
maintained in the ComplianceAsCode/content repository. You may not have a
reason to change these values unless you want to test with different content
images.

```console
$ make e2e
```

## Writing Release Notes

Release notes are maintained in the [changelog](CHANGELOG.md) and follow
guidelines based on [keep a changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
This section describes additional guidelines, conventions, and the overall
process for writing release notes.

### Guidelines

* Each release should contain release notes
* Changes should be applicable to at least one of the six types listed below
* Use literals for code and configuration (e.g. `defaultScanSettingsSchedule`
  or `nodeSelector`)
* Write your notes with users as the audience
* Link to additional documentation
  - Bug fixes should link to bug reports (GitHub Issues or Jira items)
  - Features or enhancements should link to RFEs (GitHub Issues or Jira items)
* Use active voice
  - Active voice is more direct and concise than passive voice, perfect for
    release notes
  - Focus on telling the user how a change will affect them
  - Examples
    - *You can now adjust the frequency of your scans by...*
    - *The compliance-operator no longer supports...*

### Change Types

The following describe each potential section for a release changelog.

1. Enhancements
2. Fixes
3. Internal Changes
4. Deprecations
5. Removals
6. Security

*Enhancements* are reserved for communicating any new features or
functionality. You should include any new configuration or processes a user
needs to take to use the new feature.

*Fixes* are for noting improvements to any existing functionality.

*Internal Changes* are ideal for communicating refactors not exposed to end
users. Even if a change does not directly impact end users, it is still
important to highlight paying down technical debt and the rationale for those
changes, especially since they impact the project's roadmap.

*Deprecations* is for any functionality, feature, or configuration that is
being deprecated and staged for removal. Deprecations should include why we're
preparing to remove the functionality and signal any suitable replacements
users should adopt.

*Removals* is for any functionality, feature, or configuration that is being
removed. Typically, entries in this section will have been deprecated for some
period of time. The compliance-operator follows the
[Kubernetes deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/).

*Security* is reserved for communicating security fixes and remediations for
CVEs.

A change can apply to multiple change types. For example, a bug fix for a CVE
should be mentioned in the *Fixes* and *Security* sections.

### Process

Contributors must include a release note with their changes. New notes should
be added to the [Unreleased section](CHANGELOG.md#unreleased) of the
[changelog](CHANGELOG.md). Reviewers will assess the accuracy of the release
note against the change.

Maintainers preparing a new release will propose a change that renames the
[Unreleased release notes](CHANGELOG.md#unreleased) to the newly released
version and release date. Maintainers can remove empty sections if it does not
contain any release notes for a specific release.

Maintainers will remove the content of the [Unreleased section](CHANGELOG.md#unreleased)
to allow for new release notes for the next release.

Following this process makes it easier to maintain and release accurate release
notes without having to retroactively write release notes for merged changes.

### Examples

The following is an example release note for a feature with a security note.

```
## Unreleased
### Enhancements

- Allow configuring result servers using `nodeSelector` and `tolerations`
  ([RFE](https://github.com/openshift/compliance-operator/issues/696))
  - You can now specify which nodes to use for storing raw compliance results
    using the `nodeSelector` and `tolerations` from `ScanSettings`.
  - By default, raw results are stored on nodes labeled
    `node-role.kubernetes.io/master`.
  - Please refer to the upstream Kubernetes
    [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
    for details on how to use `nodeSelector` and `tolerations`.

### Security

- Allow configuring result servers using `nodeSelector` and `tolerations`
  ([RFE](https://github.com/openshift/compliance-operator/issues/696))
  - Raw compliance results may contain sensitive information about the
    deployment, its infrastructure, or applications. Make sure you send raw
    results to trusted nodes.
```

## Proposing Releases

The release process is separated into three phases, with dedicated `make`
targets. All targets require that you set the environment variable `VERSION` prior to
running `make`, which should be a semantic version formatted string (e.g.,
`VERSION=0.1.49`).

Additionally, before preparing an official release, it is important to remember
to unset the `IMAGE_REPO` and  `TAG` environment variables in your shell, if you
have been previously developing test images. This ensures that the release applies
to the correct upstream images.

### Preparing the Release

The first phase of the release process is preparing the release locally. You
can do this by running the `make prepare-release` target. All changes are
staged locally. This is intentional so that you have the opportunity to
review the changes before proposing the release in the next step.

### Proposing the Release

The second phase of the release is to push the release to a dedicated branch
against the origin repository. You can perform this step using the `make
push-release` target.

Please note, this step makes changes to the upstream repository, so it is
imperative that you review the changes you're committing prior to this step.
This step also requires that you have necessary permissions on the repository.

### Releasing Images

The third and final step of the release is to build new images and push them to
an offical image registry. You can build new images and push using `make
release-images`. Note that this operation also requires you have proper
permissions on the remote registry.

### Purpose of `ocp-0.1` Branch

In order to fetch the source for OCP downstream pipeline, we have added a branch `ocp-0.1`,
this branch should be synced to the latest upstream release branch. The sync process has 
been included in `push-release` make target.
